# Deploy/Update applications from YAML manifests

Creating manifest files from scratch:

*  `kubectl explain deployment.spec.template.spec` command provides the details for any field in the manifest.
* use the YAML view of a resource from the web console.
* use imperative commands with the `--dry-run=client` option to generate manifests.

```sh
kubectl create deployment hello-openshift -o yaml \
  --image registry.ocp4.example.com:8443/redhattraining/hello-world-nginx:v1.0 \
  --save-config \
  --dry-run=client \
# --save-config adds configuration attributes that declarative commands use; For deployments resources, this option saves the resource configuration in an kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration annotation.
# --dry-run=client prevents the command from creating resources in the cluster
```
>  to create a resource, use the `kubectl create -f resource.yaml` command

```sh
kubectl create -R -f ~/my-app
# -R option process files recursively in multiple subdirectories
```

> `kubectl apply` command can create and update resources.

Updating resources is more complex than creating resources. The `kubectl apply` writes the contents fo the configuration file to the kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration annotation. The `kubectl create` can also generate this annotation by using the `--save-config` option.

## YAML Validation

* The `--dry-run=server` submits a server-side request without persisting the resource.
* The `--dry-run=client` prints only the object that would be sent to the server.
* The `--validate=true` uses a schema to validate the input and fails the request if it is invalid.

## Compare Resources

`kubectl diff` prints differences between live objects and manifests.

```sh
[student@workstation ~]$ kubectl diff -f my-app/example-deployment.yaml
...output omitted...
diff -u -N /tmp/LIVE-2647853521/apps.v1.Deployment.resource...
--- /tmp/LIVE-2647853521/apps.v1.Deployment.resource-manife...
+++ /tmp/MERGED-2640652736/apps.v1.Deployment.resource-mani...
@@ -6,7 +6,7 @@
```

## Update Considerations

If update does not generate new pods, e.g. if only a secret and/or a config map were updated, when changes won't reach the pods. Because pods read secret and configuration maps at startup.

As a solution use `oc rollout restart deployment deployment-name` command to force a restart of the pods.

## Applying Changes

`kubectl apply` command compares three sources to determine how to process the request.
* The manifest file
* The live configuration of the resource in the cluster
* The configuration that is stored in the last-applied-configuration

If the specified resource in the manifest file does not exist, then the `kubectl apply` command creates the resource.

If any fields in the `last-applied-configuration` annotation of the live resource are not present in the manifest, then command removes those fields from the live configuration.

After applying changes to the live resource, the `kubectl apply` command updates the `last-applied-configuration`.

When creating a resource, the `--save-config` option of the `kubectl create` command produce the required annotations for future `kubectl apply` command to operate.









